# Apples to Apples - AI Agent
A Python-based implementation of the Apples to Apples, featuring AI agents using various Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Machine Learning (ML) techniques.

## Project Structure
- `agents_archetypes/` contains the AI agent related vector files.
- `apples/` contains the green/red apple text and the word embeddings.
- `experiments/` contains the code for the experimentation, like PCA and word embedding analysis.
- `logs/` contains the log files generated by the program.
- `source/` contains the source code for the game.
- `test/` contains all testing related source code and scripts.

## Cloning Repo and Resource Setup
1. Clone this repo to your device.
2. Go to the Google webpage https://code.google.com/archive/p/word2vec/. Download the "GoogleNews-vectors-negative300.bin.gz" word embeddings in the section "Pre-trained word and phrase vectors." Here's is the direct [Google Drive link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B7XkCwpI5KDYNlNUTTlSS21pQmM/edit?resourcekey=0-wjGZdNAUop6WykTtMip30g).
4. Extract the compressed file into the `./apples/` directory. Do not rename the file (it should remain `GoogleNews-vectors-negative300.bin`).

## Environment Setup
This project was built using Python 3.11.5 and a conda environment. It is recommended to use a virtual environment to manage dependencies.

Conda users:
1. Run `conda env create -f environment.yml`
2. Activate with `conda activate apples`

Non-Conda users:
1. Create a virtual environment (`python -m venv myenv`)
2. Activate it (`source myenv/bin/activate`)
3. Install dependencies with `pip install -r requirements.txt`

*NOTE: You can rename the environment to whatever you like. Just make sure to update the environment.yml file with the new name.*

## Running the Program
1. Navigate to the root directory of the cloned repo.
2. Run the program using your current version of python `python3 game_driver.py <number players> <number of points> <total games> [green_expansion] [red_expansion] [-A] [-V] [-P] [-T] [-D]`. Example: `game_driver.py 3 5 5 -P` or `game_driver.py 5 5 10 -A -P`.

## How to Play
1. The program can be run with several option flags:
    - `-A` to use all available base sets and expansion sets
    - `-V` to use the custom vector loader (may not work on all systems)
    - `-P` to print all the game info and prompts in the terminal
    - `-T` to run in training mode and train the "Comedian" archetype
    - `-D` to enable debug mode for detailed logging

2. Initialize the players. Choose between Human, Random, or AI Agent (Literalist, Contrarian, or Comedian). NOTE: The Neural Network version of the AI Agent is not implemented. ALSO NOTE: If you're using the Comedian you need to train it by running the program in training mode using the `-T` option flag. Example: `python3 game_driver.py 3 3 3 -A -P -T`.

3. Have fun!
